## Paper Response : Autonomous Robots as Performing Agents

The idea that Robots are used to preform for entertainment is an interesting concept because if it was mentioned many years ago, people would not have thought of this idea as a good one. But in current times, we are used to seeing robots preform, not only in entertainment, but in various actions that could replace a human, like cleaning, talking, and doing chores. I agree that physical agents are more entertaining than virtual ones. This is becuase seeing something real instead of through the screen makes it more intimate and unique. This makes me think of how plays have such facinating features than movies that are only through a screen. The excitement is not the same because it is not in the present time which decreases the sense of it being real. Communication between robots is significant because it lays out how the preformance will take place, especially when relating back to their behavior. If a robots just starts preforming without any interaction then it wouldn't be an interesting scene to watch since it would lack the emotion of the action and this would affect the final preformance. Since there are several ways that communication could be displayed in the play with behavior, I believe that the communication between agent/agent, agent/audeince, and director/agent is crucial. I really liked the implementing woggles process because I could see how amazingly it would work, especially in a preformace. However I also wondered if it could be automatic rather than it being controlled by a system. Then I thought that it being controlled would maybe give out the expected result in a simpler way without causing a sense of confusion on what the woggles were displayed to do. The tie between robots, preformance, and interactions is a facinating combination that would immediately give an intersting output if teach element worked well with the other. Connecting technology with theatre and the arts is an advanced process that could take time but in the end would give an extraordinary result. 


