# Paper Response : One Stage: Robots as Performers

## Questions
1. Does a human feel a connection on stage with a robot, or does the connection only appear when a human is with another human being?
2. How does a limitation in a human or a robots affect the final performace that takes place?
3. Can a message of a performance, whether it is verbal or no-verbal be the same or does it depend on what has to be verbal and what is not?
4. In a musical performance, at which degree does the show depend heavily on the sound production? How can gestures and movements help? 
5. How can we determine if an actor is a good actor when portraying a difficult task in a performance? Does the same thing go for a robot when performing? If not, how is it different?
6. When "playing a part" does a robot or human initaite the first move? What do you think is better?

## Observations and Reactions

In the second section, robots on stage, it covers how robots are pre-programmed verbal cues and positions. This made me think about how similar the robot could be with a human, especially in a performace. This is because in a performance both a human being and a programmed robot have some limited actions and words they have to do or say since they must have been a script or a description of what the play or performace will look like. this goes back to what the writer or producer has layed out for what the audience will be seeing. I thought that it was quite interesting to see how a a human and a robot could have a similarity, not in necessarily in looks but limitations in a performance regarding the cues and postions as well. Later on in the section, the section talks about musical performances and how some musical robots imitate the action of human musicians. I was feeling a bit controversal when I read that because of how robots are programmed to do something that a human has made and a human has learned to play. But then again, robots are also made by humans so that makes it seem cool and creative. This is because when a robots 'imitates' a human it does not forget what the rest of the script for the music is, or it does not make a mistake by hitting or playing the wrong chord by mistake which is a great advantage since hitting the wrong chord can ruin a whole performance by giving the audience a different mood.

In the third section, acting lessons for HRI, it goes over the challenges that an actor goes through while parcticing over difficult tasks. This made me realize how robots actors don't have to do any hard work because they are programmed on what they exactly need to do, so there aren't any difficulties that may come on the way unless it is a technical issue that could happen, especially when the timing of when the robot should start performinf isn't clear. Timing is very important in a performace both for the robot as well as the human actors because it initiates when the show will begin when doing the first movement, gesture, or sound. Later on the in the section, the section talks about how robots are "actors". In my opinion, I believe that robots are also actors, just like humans. This is because both humans and robots have limitations as mentioned before and they have a script to follow. This idea also leads to humans to think that the robots are accepted on stage because they are acting to give the audience a performace, just like a human does. The method that Sonia Moore gives about encouraging actors to not memorize lines and leading to choose actions intead is very interesting. However, I think that it would not work out for robots because if robots are not programmed to do specific things then things will look hectic in a performance, and it wouldn't feel normal if they did not give a suitable performace.

